Remember the hacking life cycle?
Well, we're now into the fix it and make it better steps.
This is where you make recommendations to reduce
the risks and apply appropriate security controls.
In the previous step, you identified vulnerabilities and their corresponding threats.
Basically, how a target or asset can be broken.
Now, you need to make sure that you have protective or detective measures in
place to meet requirements and keep others from
breaking it either on purpose or even by accident.
This can be done with technical settings,
corporate policies, user training, or all three.
This video explains some sample recommendations.
I'm often asked if there's a checklist of security recommendations.
Throughout this course, I've introduced you to numerous ones.
For this step, I'll use the CIS controls for
guidance and how you should secure computer systems.
I'll focus on the following CIS controls: continuous vulnerability management,
account monitoring and control.
Basically know who's logged in and who has access,
and then who has administrative privileges on the system,
administrator or root on Linux systems.
We'll also look at secure configuration for both the hardware and software.
Application software security is how do we secure
any applications on the system or even applications in development.
We don't want to forget about security awareness and training.
Basically informing all end users of
their expectations and best practices for cyber security.
The first area of recommendations are to secure the configuration of software,
operating systems, and networks.
This includes application security,
endpoint protection like antivirus and firewall,
and security policy settings.
Application security has a couple of
considerations which we looked at in previous videos.
First is to remove any applications that are not needed.
That reduces the system's threat surface,
which means less things for hackers to attack.
For this, you should use the software inventory you created earlier.
Second, for the remaining applications,
make sure each one is up-to-date on its patches.
The second area is endpoint protection.
These are the defenses to protect your computer,
such as anti-virus and other types of malware protection,
and also setting the computer's firewall.
The third point is to set configuration policies on the system to further lock it down.
This includes setting the Windows, auditing policies,
and other security policies,
which I'll demonstrate in the exercise video.
In previous videos, I talked about access control, authentication, and authorization.
I have a couple of additional recommendations.
The first is to ensure each account has an owner.
This is the person responsible for the account.
An account without an owner could be used to harm the computer,
its data, or its contents.
Second is to restrict users with administrative privileges.
These are accounts in the administrator's group that can do anything on the computer,
including changing configuration settings and installing new applications.
To all standard users,
the ability to perform administrative tasks,
Windows systems have a feature known as User Account Control or UAC.
This restricts or allows what end-users can or cannot do on the computer.
The third recommendation I have is to implement
security awareness training for all users.
This is the information they need to know to keep their systems,
applications, and data safe.
Training would also include
the company policy rules we talked about in an earlier lesson.
All users should receive security awareness training
throughout the year and verified at least annually.
Having a solid security awareness program reduces
many known security risks such as phishing,
malware, and data breaches.